Characters in chronological order of birth

1. King Shantanu
2. Queen Satyavati (Shantanus wife)
3. Bhishma (Shantanu's first son)
4. Vyasadeva (Satyavati's first son)
5. Vichitravirya (Satyavati and Shantanu's son)
6. Chitrangada (Satyavati and Shantanu's son)
7. Ambika (Vichitravirya's wife)
8.Ambalika (Vichitravirya's wife)

Story:

Satyavati in her young days was involved in rowing travellers. She meets Parasara who was a great ascetic. He is impressed by Satyavati's devotion and respect and begets a child with her and offers her a boon of not losing her virginity when she gives birth to that child named Vyasadeva and also offers her a boon of having a good fragrance.

One day, Shantanu falls in love with Satyavati and goes to her father seek her hand in marriage. Her father asks Shantanu to make her future son as the king. Shantanu agrees but Satyavati's father tells that he already has a son named Bhishma. Hearing this, Bhishma takes a vow of celibacy to facilitate his father's marriage. 

Shantanu dies and now someone must ascend the throne. Chitrangada has died in battle with a Gandharva who was also named Chitrangada.Vichitravirya has died of illness after ruling for 7 years. Now there is no heir to the throne. 

In this dilemma, Satyavati asks Bhishma to break his vow, but Bhishma remains resilient to carry on his vow of celibacy. Hence, Satyavati asks Vyasadeva to beget sons with Ambika who could take the throne.
Vyasadeva comes back from his ascetic practice. Ambika is ready to accept Vyasadeva (in earlier traditions, husband's brother ould beget sons in desperate situations). But when she sees him, she is repulsed by his bad looks and stench. Hence she closes her eyes during mating. This angers Vyasadeva and he says that the son born from them will be extremely strong and wise but he will be blind but will still be capable of begetting 100 sons.

Hearing this, Satyavati asks Vyasadeva to beget sons with Ambalika. He agrees. Ambalika is also repulsed and her face turns pale, but she doesnt close her eyes. Hence Vyasadeva tells that the son born will be noble, worthy and strong but wil be pale (Pandu).
Hence Dhritarashtra (blind king) and Pandu are born.

Satyavati is still not happy and asks Vyasadeva to unite with Ambika again after the birth of first blind child.Ambika deceives Vyasadeva and sends a maid servant as substitute. She receieves Vyasadeva with great respect and honors him. Hence Vyasadeva blesses her that she gives birth to a very wise man. Hence, Vidura is born.

Bhishma raises all the 3 children with great care and affection like an elderly father. But he now has to find princess to marry them to the king.

Dhritarashtra marries Gandhari. Gandhari was also blessed to beget 100 sons. Gandhari takes a vow to always cover her eyes with a black silk cloth.  

Bhishma then sends Pandu to Kunti's Swayamwara where Kunti is attracted to Pandu's handsome looks and decides to marry him. 

Bhishma feels that one more queen is required for Pandu to ensure the Kuru race lives on, and hence he decides to arrange the marriage of Pandu and Madari as well. 